Visitor Pattern

	'Visitor' is a behavioral design pattern that lets you separate algorithms from the objects on which they operate.

	Problem

		Imagine that your team develops an app that works with geographic information structured as one colossal graph. Each node of the graph may represent a complex entity such as a city, but also more granular things like industries, sightseeing areas, etc. The nodes are connected with others if there’s a road between the real objects that they represent. Under the hood, each node type is represented by its own class, while each specific node is an object.

		At some point, a new requirement comes in to implement a feature to export the graph as XML Doc. You can create an export method in each node class and class them recursively to export the whole graph. This approach has a few drawbacks.

			1. The primary job of 'node' classes was to represent geodata. Adding an XML export to it would violate SRP.

			2. What would happen if a new requirement comes in to export the data in a different format, we would have to modify the classes once again (this might break some existing functionalities) and this violates OCP.

	Solution

		The Visitor pattern suggests that you place the new behavior into a separate class called 'visitor', instead of trying to integrate it into existing classes. The original object that had to perform the behavior is now passed to one of the visitor’s methods as an argument, providing the method access to all necessary data contained within the object.

		Now, what if that behavior can be executed over objects of different classes? For example, in our case with XML export, the actual implementation will probably be a little bit different across various node classes. Thus, the visitor class may define not one, but a set of methods, each of which could take arguments of different types.

		But how exactly would we call these methods, especially when dealing with the whole graph? These methods have different signatures, so we can’t use polymorphism. To pick a proper visitor method that’s able to process a given object, we’d need to check its class. 

		The Visitor pattern addresses this problem. It uses a technique called 'Double Dispatch', which helps to execute the proper method on an object without cumbersome conditionals. Instead of letting the client select a proper version of the method to call, how about we delegate this choice to objects we’re passing to the visitor as an argument? Since the objects know their own classes, they’ll be able to pick a proper method on the visitor less awkwardly. They “accept” a visitor and tell it what visiting method should be executed.

		In this case, we had to change the node classes after all. But at least the change is trivial and it lets us add further behaviors without altering the code once again.

		Now, if we extract a common interface for all visitors, all existing nodes can work with any visitor you introduce into the app. If you find yourself introducing a new behavior related to nodes, all you have to do is implement a new visitor class.

	Application

		1. Use the Visitor when you need to perform an operation on all elements of a complex object structure. The Visitor pattern lets you execute an operation over a set of objects with different classes by having a visitor object implement several variants of the same operation, which correspond to all target classes.

		2. Use the Visitor to clean up the business logic of auxiliary behaviors.  The pattern lets you make the primary classes of your app more focused on their main jobs by extracting all other behaviors into a set of visitor classes.

		3. Use the pattern when a behavior makes sense only in some classes of a class hierarchy, but not in others.

	How to implement

		1. Declare the visitor interface with a set of 'visiting' methods, one per each concrete element class that exists in the program.

		2. Declare the element interface. If you’re working with an existing element class hierarchy, add the abstract 'acceptance' method to the base class of the hierarchy. This method should accept a visitor object as an argument.

		3. Implement the acceptance methods in all concrete element classes. These methods must simply redirect the call to a visiting method on the incoming visitor object which matches the class of the current element.

		4. The element classes should only work with visitors via the visitor interface. Visitors, however, must be aware of all concrete element classes, referenced as parameter types of the visiting methods.

		5. For each behavior that can’t be implemented inside the element hierarchy, create a new concrete visitor class and implement all of the visiting methods. You might encounter a situation where the visitor will need access to some private members of the element class. In this case, you can either make these fields or methods public, violating the element’s encapsulation, or nest the visitor class in the element class. The latter is only possible if you’re lucky to work with a programming language that supports nested classes.

		6. The client must create visitor objects and pass them into elements via “acceptance” methods.

	Pros

		1. Open/Closed Principle. You can introduce a new behavior that can work with objects of different classes without changing these classes.

		2. Single Responsibility Principle. You can move multiple versions of the same behavior into the same class. Separating algorithms from the classes will help us enforce SRP for these classes.

		3. A visitor object can accumulate some useful information while working with various objects. This might be handy when you want to traverse some complex object structure, such as an object tree, and apply the visitor to each object of this structure.

	Cons

		1. You need to update all visitors each time a class gets added to or removed from the element hierarchy.

		2. Visitors might lack the necessary access to the private fields and methods of the elements that they’re supposed to work with. In such cases, we might be forced to violate encapsulation and make some of the private fields public.

References

	C# Design Patterns: Visitor by Harrison Ferrone - https://app.pluralsight.com/library/courses/c-sharp-design-patterns-visitor
	https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/visitor
